docs/core/transactions/types/delegate-resignation.md, before:

---
title: Transaction Types - Delegate Resignation
---

# Delegate Resignation

| TypeGroup | Type  |
| :-------: | :---: |
|     1     |   7   |

This transaction type enables delegates to block potential voters from voting for them if they choose to withdraw their status as delegates. A non-reversible transaction can be sent to the network to indicate that the delegate should no longer be included in any future forging rounds.

This transaction acts as a "kill command" for delegates who wish to resign or retire their delegate. Activating a delegate resignation will mean delegates will no longer be able to receive any new votes. Plus, for actively forging delegates, enabling delegate resignation will mean they permanently drop out of the top 53. This provides a clean and simple way to retire a delegate.

| References           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| :------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Improvement Proposal | [AIP11](https://github.com/ArkEcosystem/AIPs/blob/master/AIPS/aip-11.md), [AIP29](https://github.com/ArkEcosystem/AIPs/blob/master/AIPS/aip-29.md)                                                                                                                                                                               |
| API Endpoints        | [Link](/docs/api/public-rest-api/endpoints/transactions)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| AJV Schema           | [Base](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L17-L46) \| [Delegate Resignation](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L374-L381) |

## Transaction Structure

### Json

```json
{
    "version": 3,
    "network": 63,
    "typeGroup": 1,
    "type": 1,
    "nonce": "9",
    "senderPublicKey": "034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192",
    "fee": "0",
}
```

### Serialized

```shell
ff033f0100000002000900000000000000034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192000000000000000000eb08bf010000000005736c333370
```

### Deserialized

| Key                  |   Pos.   | Size<br/>_(bytes)_ | Value<br/>_(hex)_                                                      |
| :------------------- | :------: | :----------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Header Flag:**     | **[0]**  |       **1**        | `0xff`                                                                 |
| **Version:**         | **[1]**  |       **1**        | `0x03`                                                                 |
| **Network:**         | **[2]**  |       **1**        | `0x3f`                                                                 |
| **Typegroup:**       | **[3]**  |       **4**        | `0x01000000`                                                           |
| **Type:**            | **[7]**  |       **2**        | `0x0700`                                                               |
| **Nonce:**           | **[9]**  |       **8**        | `0x0900000000000000`                                                   |
| **SenderPublicKey:** | **[17]** |       **33**       | `0x034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192` |
| **Fee:**             | **[50]** |       **8**        | `0x0000000000000000`                                                   |
| **Memo Length:**     | **[58]** |       **1**        | `0x00`                                                                 |

Commit message:

docs(core): update delegate resignation

docs/core/transactions/types/delegate-resignation.md, after:

---
title: Transaction Types - Delegate Resignation
---

# Delegate Resignation

| TypeGroup | Type  |
| :-------: | :---: |
|     1     |   7   |

A 'Delegate Resignation' transaction allows a delegate to resign temporarily or permanently. While resigned, their ability to receive votes is blocked and, if ranked in the top 53 Delegates, are removed from their forging position immediately. 

A 'Permanent Resignation' is for delegates who wish to permanently retire their position as a delegate on the Solar Network. Once resigned permanently, a delegate cannot reinstate their candidacy, and their username will no longer be registrable.

A 'Temporary Resignation' is for delegates who wish to halt their delegacy for a short time without negatively impacting the network (e.g., missing blocks) and can be for a variety of reasons, from temporary node maintenance to personal/private matters. While resigned temporarily, the delegate must wait for at least 106 blocks (two rounds) before 'Revoking' their resignation.

> ℹ️ Only temporary resignations may be revoked.

| References    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Pull Request  | Core [#92](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/pull/92)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| API Endpoints | [Link](/docs/api/public-rest-api/endpoints/transactions)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| AJV Schema    | [Base](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L17-L46) \| [Delegate Resignation](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/31b910a624f2004f174a77896e88db1f7e9a670d/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L357-#L370) |

## Transaction Structure

### Json

```json
{
    "version": 3,
    "network": 63,
    "typeGroup": 1,
    "type": 7,
    "nonce": "9",
    "senderPublicKey": "034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192",
    "fee": "0",
    "asset": {
        "resignationType": 1
    }
}
```

### Serialized

```shell
ff033f0100000007000900000000000000034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192000000000000000000eb08bf010000000005736c33337001
```

### Deserialized

| Key                  |   Pos.   | Size<br/>_(bytes)_ | Value<br/>_(hex)_                                                      |
| :------------------- | :------: | :----------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Header Flag:**     | **[0]**  |       **1**        | `0xff`                                                                 |
| **Version:**         | **[1]**  |       **1**        | `0x03`                                                                 |
| **Network:**         | **[2]**  |       **1**        | `0x3f`                                                                 |
| **Typegroup:**       | **[3]**  |       **4**        | `0x01000000`                                                           |
| **Type:**            | **[7]**  |       **2**        | `0x0700`                                                               |
| **Nonce:**           | **[9]**  |       **8**        | `0x0900000000000000`                                                   |
| **SenderPublicKey:** | **[17]** |       **33**       | `0x034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192` |
| **Fee:**             | **[50]** |       **8**        | `0x0000000000000000`                                                   |
| **Memo Length:**     | **[58]** |       **1**        | `0x00`                                                                 |
| **Resignation Type** | **[59]** |       **1**        | `0x01`                                                                 |

### Resignation Types

| Resignation Type | Value | Description                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------- | :---: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Temporary        |   0   | Resign only for a short time.<br/>Delegate will be temporarily blocked from receiving votes or forging.<br/>_(the default when no resign type is declared)_ |
| Permanent        |   1   | Irreversible. Delegate will no longer be allowed to receive votes or forge.                                                                                 |
| Revoke           |   2   | Reverses a temporary resignation.                                                                                                                           |
