docs/core/transactions/types/legacy-transfer.md, before:

---
title: Transaction Types - Transfer _(**DEPRECATED**)_
---

# Transfer _(**DEPRECATED**)_

> 🛑 Transfer (Type 0) has been deprecated, please visit ['TypeGroup 1, Type 6: Transfer'](/docs/core/transactions/types/transfer) to see the updated transaction.

| TypeGroup | Type  |
| :-------: | :---: |
|     1     |   0   |

The transfer transaction enables a user to broadcast a transaction to the network sending SXP tokens from one SXP wallet to another. This transaction type provides the utility of store-of-value and value transfer. It also contains a special data field of 255 bytes called the vendor field, allowing raw data, code or plain text to be stored on the blockchain. The vendor field is public and immutable, and is also utilized in SXP SmartBridge Technology.

| References           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| :------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Improvement Proposal | [AIP11](https://github.com/ArkEcosystem/AIPs/blob/master/AIPS/aip-11.md), [AIP29](https://github.com/ArkEcosystem/AIPs/blob/master/AIPS/aip-29.md)                                                                                                                                                                 |
| API Endpoints        | [Link](/docs/api/public-rest-api/endpoints/transactions)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| AJV Schema           | [Base](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L17-L46) \| [Transfer](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L64-L74) |

## Json

```json
{
    "version": 3,
    "network": 63,
    "typeGroup": 1,
    "type": 0,
    "nonce": "1",
    "senderPublicKey": "034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192",
    "fee": "5000000",
    "vendorField": "This is a test vendorfield.",
    "amount": "100000000",
    "expiration": 0,
    "recipientId": "SNAgA2XCRZDKfm5Vu9h4KR1bZw5xn9EiC3"
}
```

## Serialized

```shell
ff033f0100000000000100000000000000034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192404b4c00000000001b54686973206973206120746573742076656e646f726669656c642e00e1f50500000000000000003f0995750207ecaf0ccf251c1265b92ad84f553662
```

## Deserialized

| Key                     |   Pos.   | Size<br/>_(bytes)_ | Value<br/>_(hex)_                                                      |
| :---------------------- | :------: | :----------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Header Flag:**        | **[0]**  |       **1**        | `0xff`                                                                 |
| **Version:**            | **[1]**  |       **1**        | `0x03`                                                                 |
| **Network:**            | **[2]**  |       **1**        | `0x3f`                                                                 |
| **Typegroup:**          | **[3]**  |       **4**        | `0x01000000`                                                           |
| **Type:**               | **[7]**  |       **2**        | `0x0000`                                                               |
| **Nonce:**              | **[9]**  |       **8**        | `0x0100000000000000`                                                   |
| **SenderPublicKey:**    | **[17]** |       **33**       | `0x034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192` |
| **Fee:**                | **[50]** |       **8**        | `0x404b4c0000000000`                                                   |
| **VendorField Length:** | **[58]** |       **1**        | `0x1b`                                                                 |
| **VendorField:**        | **[59]** |       **26**       | `0x54686973206973206120746573742076656e646f726669656c642e`             |
| **Amount:**             | **[85]** |       **8**        | `0x00e1f50500000000`                                                   |
| **Expiration:**         | **[93]** |       **4**        | `0x00000000`                                                           |
| **Recipient:**          | **[97]** |       **21**       | `0x3f0995750207ecaf0ccf251c1265b92ad84f553662`                         |

Commit message:

docs(core-tx): rename vendorfield -> memo

docs/core/transactions/types/legacy-transfer.md, after:

---
title: Transaction Types - Transfer _(**DEPRECATED**)_
---

# Transfer _(**DEPRECATED**)_

> 🛑 Transfer (Type 0) has been deprecated, please visit ['TypeGroup 1, Type 6: Transfer'](/docs/core/transactions/types/transfer) to see the updated transaction.

| TypeGroup | Type  |
| :-------: | :---: |
|     1     |   0   |

The transfer transaction enables a user to broadcast a transaction to the network sending SXP tokens from one SXP wallet to another. This transaction type provides the utility of store-of-value and value transfer.

All Solar transactions contain a special data field of 255 bytes called the Memo (formerly known as the vendorfield), allowing raw data, code or plain text to be stored on the blockchain. The Memo is public and immutable.

| References           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| :------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Improvement Proposal | [AIP11](https://github.com/ArkEcosystem/AIPs/blob/master/AIPS/aip-11.md), [AIP29](https://github.com/ArkEcosystem/AIPs/blob/master/AIPS/aip-29.md)                                                                                                                                                                 |
| API Endpoints        | [Link](/docs/api/public-rest-api/endpoints/transactions)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| AJV Schema           | [Base](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L17-L46) \| [Transfer](https://github.com/Solar-network/core/blob/0c03aaf1feebb77bd33117110c358636bf14d9c0/packages/crypto/src/transactions/types/schemas.ts#L64-L74) |

## Json

```json
{
    "version": 3,
    "network": 63,
    "typeGroup": 1,
    "type": 0,
    "nonce": "1",
    "senderPublicKey": "034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192",
    "fee": "5000000",
    "Memo": "This is a test Memo.",
    "amount": "100000000",
    "expiration": 0,
    "recipientId": "SNAgA2XCRZDKfm5Vu9h4KR1bZw5xn9EiC3"
}
```

## Serialized

```shell
ff033f0100000000000100000000000000034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192404b4c00000000001b54686973206973206120746573742076656e646f726669656c642e00e1f50500000000000000003f0995750207ecaf0ccf251c1265b92ad84f553662
```

## Deserialized

| Key                  |   Pos.   | Size<br/>_(bytes)_ | Value<br/>_(hex)_                                                      |
| :------------------- | :------: | :----------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Header Flag:**     | **[0]**  |       **1**        | `0xff`                                                                 |
| **Version:**         | **[1]**  |       **1**        | `0x03`                                                                 |
| **Network:**         | **[2]**  |       **1**        | `0x3f`                                                                 |
| **Typegroup:**       | **[3]**  |       **4**        | `0x01000000`                                                           |
| **Type:**            | **[7]**  |       **2**        | `0x0000`                                                               |
| **Nonce:**           | **[9]**  |       **8**        | `0x0100000000000000`                                                   |
| **SenderPublicKey:** | **[17]** |       **33**       | `0x034151a3ec46b5670a682b0a63394f863587d1bc97483b1b6c70eb58e7f0aed192` |
| **Fee:**             | **[50]** |       **8**        | `0x404b4c0000000000`                                                   |
| **Memo Length:**     | **[58]** |       **1**        | `0x1b`                                                                 |
| **Memo:**            | **[59]** |       **26**       | `0x54686973206973206120746573742076656e646f726669656c642e`             |
| **Amount:**          | **[85]** |       **8**        | `0x00e1f50500000000`                                                   |
| **Expiration:**      | **[93]** |       **4**        | `0x00000000`                                                           |
| **Recipient:**       | **[97]** |       **21**       | `0x3f0995750207ecaf0ccf251c1265b92ad84f553662`                         |
