docs/desktop-wallet/user-guides/vote.md, before:

---
title: How to Vote or Unvote in the Desktop Wallet?
---

# How to Vote in the Desktop Wallet?

## General information

You can use your SXP to vote or a delegate. Some basic voting info:

### 1 SXP address can vote for only one delegate at a time

If you wish to vote for more than one delegate you can create multiple wallets, split your SXP among those wallets and vote for a different delegate with each wallet. For example, if you have 1000 SXP, you can vote for one delegate with all of your SXP in one wallet, or you can divide your SXP into two wallets of 500 SXP each and vote for two different delegates. You can create as many wallets as you want and divide your SXP among them in any proportion you choose.

### 1 SXP equals a voting weight of 1

The more SXP you hold, the more voting weight you possess. If you split your SXP into multiple wallets, your voting power divides proportionally among those wallets. For example, if you have 1,000 SXP your voting power is equal to 1,000 SXP. If you split your SXP into two wallets, each will have a voting power of 500 SXP.

### Each vote or comes with a fee

Each transaction in the SXP network costs a certain amount of SXP. With the implementation of dynamic fees, this cost will become adjustable. You can choose how much you want to spend for each specific transaction, even for voting and for un-voting.

!!! info

    For more information about staking, please visit: [SXP Rewards (Staking)](/desktop-wallet/introduction-to-solar-rewards)

## Who to vote For?

Visit [SXP Delegates](https://delegates.solar.org/), our community-run delegate resource, for more information on delegate proposals. From the current list of delegates, vote according to your preferences.

You can also view all registered block producers using Solarscan: <a href="https://solarscan.com/block-producers" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">solarscan.com/block-producers</a>

## Voting for a delegate

![Browse the list of registered delegates](/desktop-wallet/assets/delegates.png)

![Choose the delegate you wish to vote for, review their statistics and click Vote](/desktop-wallet/assets/delegatestats.png)

![Fill in the required vote transaction fields and click Next](/desktop-wallet/assets/vote.png)

!!! info

    For more information about fees, please visit: [Transaction Fees](/desktop-wallet/user-guides/transaction-fees)

Remember that you can always change your vote!

Commit message:

chore: rm explorer links and refs

docs/desktop-wallet/user-guides/vote.md, after:

---
title: How to Vote or Unvote in the Desktop Wallet?
---

# How to Vote in the Desktop Wallet?

## General information

You can use your SXP to vote or a delegate. Some basic voting info:

### 1 SXP address can vote for only one delegate at a time

If you wish to vote for more than one delegate you can create multiple wallets, split your SXP among those wallets and vote for a different delegate with each wallet. For example, if you have 1000 SXP, you can vote for one delegate with all of your SXP in one wallet, or you can divide your SXP into two wallets of 500 SXP each and vote for two different delegates. You can create as many wallets as you want and divide your SXP among them in any proportion you choose.

### 1 SXP equals a voting weight of 1

The more SXP you hold, the more voting weight you possess. If you split your SXP into multiple wallets, your voting power divides proportionally among those wallets. For example, if you have 1,000 SXP your voting power is equal to 1,000 SXP. If you split your SXP into two wallets, each will have a voting power of 500 SXP.

### Each vote or comes with a fee

Each transaction in the SXP network costs a certain amount of SXP. With the implementation of dynamic fees, this cost will become adjustable. You can choose how much you want to spend for each specific transaction, even for voting and for un-voting.

!!! info

    For more information about staking, please visit: [SXP Rewards (Staking)](/desktop-wallet/introduction-to-solar-rewards)

## Who to vote For?

Visit [SXP Delegates](https://delegates.solar.org/), our community-run delegate resource, for more information on delegate proposals. From the current list of delegates, vote according to your preferences.

!!! tip "You can also view all registered block producers using the public [REST API](/api/public-rest-api/getting-started) or a block explorer"

## Voting for a delegate

![Browse the list of registered delegates](/desktop-wallet/assets/delegates.png)

![Choose the delegate you wish to vote for, review their statistics and click Vote](/desktop-wallet/assets/delegatestats.png)

![Fill in the required vote transaction fields and click Next](/desktop-wallet/assets/vote.png)

!!! info

    For more information about fees, please visit: [Transaction Fees](/desktop-wallet/user-guides/transaction-fees)

Remember that you can always change your vote!
